# supply-chain-analysis

To analyze a company’s supply chain, we need data on the different stages of the supply chain, like data about sourcing, manufacturing, transportation, inventory management, sales and customer demographics.
I found an ideal dataset for this task which includes data about the supply chain of a Fashion and Beauty startup.

Supply Chain Management is the planning of the flow of goods from raw materials to the final products and ensuring the delivery of the demanded products at the right place and at the right time. When Data Science was not mainstream in the industry, Supply Chain professionals relied heavily on Supply Chain Management software and their experience in managing the overall supply chain of the business. Today companies can optimize their supply chain operations even further by analyzing real-time data on customer behaviour, weather patterns, inventory levels, market trends, sales patterns, and transportation routes.

#--insights gained--#

 1. Most selling product - skincare
 2. Most defect product - Haircare
 3. Most revenue generated by - rail mode of transport
 4. Stock levels are not constant
 5. Due defects in haircare the products are not selling fastly
 6. When price increasing the revenue generated by cosmetics is decreasing but not in case of skincare.

Overall: 

1. Addressing and resolving the defect issues in haircare products to boost sales.
2. Carefully managing stock levels to prevent stockouts or overstocking.
3. Considering pricing strategies carefully, especially for cosmetics, to maintain or increase revenue.
4. Continuously optimizing the use of rail transport to maximize cost-efficiency.
5. Additionally, further analysis should be conducted to understand customer preferences, competition in the skincare and cosmetics markets, and potential strategies to improve the quality and appeal of haircare products 
   to boost their sales.

note: if jupiter notebook not loading, try downloading the zip file.
